APM > .NET > add troubleshooting page (#8405)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/troubleshooting/iis_dotnet_framework.md

---

> title: Troubleshooting - Not seeing .NET Framework traces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Troubleshooting .NET Framework Traces
```

kind: documentation
---

## Problem 

.NET Framework APM traces are not showing within Datadog.

## Solution

> If .NET Framework APM traces are not showing within Datadog, please review the possible reasons below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If .NET Framework APM traces are not showing within Datadog, review the possible reasons below.
```

### Compatability 

> The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on .NET Framework 4.5 and above. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on .NET Framework 4.5 and above.   Additionally, only [supported frameworks][3] are automatically instrumented.  If you are are missing spans from a part of your application, please confirm the integration and version are supported and [open a support ticket][4] with this information provided to expedite our review.
```

> ### Confirm Installation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Confirm installation 
```

#### Datadog Agent

> Has the Datadog Agent for Windows OS been installed locally? If not, please visit our [Datadog Windows agent][1] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the Datadog Agent for Windows OS been installed locally. If not, visit the [Datadog Windows Agent][1] guide.
```

Reviewer 2: General comment - @ruthnaebeck @jaycdave88 might it be better to remove the h4's and make this a list of two things under `Confirm installation`?  I feel like there's a lot of headers for not too much text for these steps.

> #### Datadog .NET Tracer 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Datadog .NET tracer
```

> Has the Datadog .NET tracer been installed locally? If not, please visit our [Datadog .NET APM release page][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the Datadog .NET tracer been installed locally. If not, visit our [Datadog .NET APM release page][2].
```

> ### Automatic Instrumentation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Automatic instrumentation 
```

> #### Verify Required Environment Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Environment variables
```

> For Automatic Instrumentation for IIS application(s), the required environment variables must be set within the `W3SVC` & `WAS` Windows Registry paths. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For automatic instrumentation of IIS applications, the required environment variables must be set within the `W3SVC` & `WAS` Windows registry paths. 
```

Reviewer 3: I think "Windows Registry" should remain capitalized since it's is a product name.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Registry

##### Steps

1. Run `regedit.exe` to open the Windows Registry Editor.
2. Check the following paths: 
```text
HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\W3SVC
HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\WAS
```

> 3. Create a Multi-String Value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a multi-string value: 
```

>     * With the Value name set to "Environment"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Set the value name to "Environment".
```

>     * Ensure the Value data contains the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Ensure the value data contains the following:
```

{{< code-block lang="default">}}
COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
{{< /code-block >}}

> 4. Restart IIS via: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Restart IIS:
```

```text
net stop was /y
net start w3svc
```

> ### Hybrid Instrumentation, (Custom & Automatic)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hybrid instrumentation
```

> When using both custom and automatic instrumentation, it is important to keep the MSI installer and NuGet package versions in sync.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using both custom and automatic instrumentation, it is important to keep the MSI installer and NuGet package versions in sync.

If [custom instrumented][5] spans are not appearing correctly in the Datadog UI, compare your instrumentation against the provided examples.  If you have any questions about or need help with your custom instrumented spans, [create a support ticket][4] and provide the custom code written to generate the spans.
```

> [1]:/agent/basic_agent_usage/windows/?tab=gui

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: /agent/basic_agent_usage/windows/?tab=gui
```

> [2]:https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/latest
```

Reviewer 2: added a few :)

---

> title: Troubleshooting .NET Framework Traces

Reviewer 3: Resolving since this is now a general .NET troubleshooting page.

kind: documentation
---

## Problem 

> .NET Framework APM traces are not showing within Datadog.

Reviewer 3: Resolving since this is now a general .NET troubleshooting page.

### Compatability 

The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on .NET Framework 4.5 and above.   Additionally, only [supported frameworks][3] are automatically instrumented.  If you are are missing spans from a part of your application, please confirm the integration and version are supported and [open a support ticket][4] with this information provided to expedite our review.

### Confirm installation 

#### Datadog Agent

Verify the Datadog Agent for Windows OS been installed locally. If not, visit the [Datadog Windows Agent][1] guide.

#### Datadog .NET tracer

Verify the Datadog .NET tracer been installed locally. If not, visit our [Datadog .NET APM release page][2].

### Automatic instrumentation 

#### Environment variables

For automatic instrumentation of IIS applications, the required environment variables must be set within the `W3SVC` & `WAS` Windows registry paths. 

##### Steps

1. Run `regedit.exe` to open the Windows Registry Editor.
2. Check the following paths: 
```text
HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\W3SVC
HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\WAS
```

> 3. Create a multi-string value: 

Author: "editing these specific keys by hand has a big chance of user error that will break the tracer"

- Please take a look at the staging link. https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/jay.dave/dotnet_troubleshooting/tracing/troubleshooting/iis_dotnet_framework
- We are giving them a copy feature so they do not type anything incorrectly. 

"instead of doing this, users should reinstall or repair the msi installer, which is easier and safer"
- We should be offering alternative ways for setting this outside of saying to the customer if there is an issue uninstall and reinstall or repair, which is why the PS is being shared.

> 3. Create a multi-string value: 

Reviewer 3: Can we take this discussion back to the design document?
